# IT-230

This program was designed to allow students to select and register for up to 9 credit hours worth of courses (3 courses) from the course list provided to them when the application is run. In the instructions for this assignment, I was not required to change the color of the outputs that tell the user if they have registered for the course, if they have already registered for said course, or if they are over 9 credit hours. However, since the goal of this program was to tell the user they had registered for the course, I decided it would be best practice to familiarize myself with how to change the color of text to subconsciously indicate to the user that they were successful in their registration (green text) or if there was an issue with their registration (red text) even if they did not fully read what was displayed to them. To make sure that the right message was displayed, I had to make sure that my branching was done well and it was thorough, taking into account all the possible ways the user could arrive at an error, and I think this was something I excelled at in this assignment. For example, something that could be easily overlooked is when the program first runs and there is no course selected, the user could still hit the "Register for this course" button. If they were to hit the button, then we would want a unique error message to display to make sure the user knows what to do next when trying to register for a course. It is easy to assume that the user would select a course first before hitting the button, like most would, but it is always good to make sure you cover all the possible branches your program could go in to make it as accessible and easy to use as possible. Throughout the parts for this project, I have worked with Console and WPF application designs, which allowed me to learn how to design a simple UI that was easily laid out and displayed messages in an intuitive way for the user. In my mind, I just thought about WPF applications, like making a console application practical, and it helped me keep my design simple and effective. I made sure there was nothing busy going on with the UI that could distract or confuse users, and I made sure it was user-friendly for all ages. When I started programming this assignment, I made myself a more basic pseudocode that was really just a guide for all my branches and things that I needed to cover. This made the actual process of coding much more efficient since I had to think less about where parts of my code needed to go, and I could focus more on the code itself because the code was easier when it came time to debug since I had it broken down into stages. Depending on where the program made it into each stage would help me determine where the bug was in my code. This is something that I can take with me in all my future coding endeavors, as it proved to help me write my code in a faster, more efficient way and created fewer bugs. The part of my code that required me to overcome the biggest challenge in my application process had a rather simple fix. It came when I was trying to total the users credit hours. Originally I had the total credit variable declared inside one of the branch statements, which caused it to be reset back down to 0 each time since it was getting declared every single time the user arrived at the branch. Obviously this was not the goal for the assignment; I wanted the program to retain the previous course information and build off of it to ensure the user was only allowed to do as much as I wanted them to. I am not sure why this gave me the most amount of trouble, but for some reason I could not figure out where to declare this variable. It took me about ten minutes to realize that I just needed to make sure it was outside of all branches, so I declared it at the very top of my program to make sure it was as clear as possible that it was not a part of any other methods either. While it was a simple fix and really not too big of a challenge, it was the thing that caused me the most trouble while working on the program, and I believe that was the case because it was something so simple and common for any application, and I was so focused on making sure I had included the new aspects I learned from this course, and it just slipped my mind about where it needed to be declared.
